In this tutorial we will spawn our entire arsenal of weapons: a grenade launcher and a rifle.
We will switch between them by pressing a key. We will need an additional socket, to which
a weapon that is not currently being used will be attached. In the skeleton tree, add a new socket
to the spine1 bone . This bone belongs to the spine. The weapon will be strapped to the back.
In the details panel, set a name for the socket. Let's call it ArmorySocket.
Let's add a preview asset to it. Right click and select the asset launcher.
Let's set up a relative transformation. I selected these parameters in advance.
RelativeLocation will be = (-9, -26, -23). The relative rotation will be = (-10, 70, -29).
Thus, the second weapon will be behind the back.
And if you open an animation asset,
you can see how it will look in a certain pose of the character.
Next, go to project settings, in the input category. We need to add a new action mapping
that will be responsible for switching weapons. Let's call it NextWeapon. We won't be making
separate buttons for each weapon. It's just that the weapon will cycle on demand.
Let the weapon switch by pressing the tab key and also we can add a
switch when scrolling the mouse wheel. To do this, add mouse wheel up and mouse wheel down.
That is, no matter where we turn the wheel, our weapon switches to the next one.
Go to the .h file of the weapon component and the first thing we do is change the property WeaponClass.
It will now be an array. We write TArray.
The array element type will be TSubclassOf <ASTUBaseWeapon>. And change WeaponClass to WeaponClasses. We will need to spawn
all weapon classes that are added to this array. In our case, there will be 2 of them. Let's rename the variable that
is responsible for socket. The title is actually a little flawed. Let's call it WeaponEquipSocketName.
Copy this property. We have added a new socket. We name the variable WeaponArmorySocketName.
This variable is responsible for the name of the socket to which we attach the additional weapon.
We need an additional array where all pointers to the weapon actors that we spawn
will be stored . Each time you change weapons, the CurrentWeapon pointer will change to the corresponding
pointer from the Weapons array, which we will now create with you. We write TArray. The element type of the array will be a
pointer to ASTUBaseWeapon and call the array Weapons. Let's rename the SpawnWeapon function to SpawnWeapons.
We also need an additional variable, which will store the index of the array element,
which is currently being referenced by our CurrentWeapon pointer. The variable will be of integer type.
Let's call it CurrentWeaponIndex and by default it will be equal to zero.
Go to the .cpp file of the weapon component. Change SpawnWeapon to SpawnWeapons in two places.
Let's also move the GetWorld check under one if so we have fewer lines.
Our code was written for one weapon class, and now we need to change that and go through the entire WeaponClasses array
and spawn the appropriate actors. We use a range for loop.
We transfer the lines with the spawn of the weapon. We insert it into the body of the loop, change the CurrentWeapon to the local variable Weapon.
We'll install CurrentWeapon a bit later. Further. If after calling the SpawnActor function the
pointer turned out to be null, then in this case we can also leave return and change to continue.
We can also output some warning message to the log. We will return to this situation in a few lectures.
Let's leave continue for now. Next, for each actor that spawns, we set the
Owner - our character. And we add this pointer to the Weapons array that we just created.
This is done using the Add function. It remains to attach the weapon to the character's mesh.
In the spawn function, we will attach all weapons to the ArmorySocket, and when equipping, we will attach the current weapon to the Equip socket.
Therefore, we can separate the attachment code into a separate method,
because it will be called for two different sockets. Let's call the function AttachToSocket.
It's even better to call it AttachWeaponToSocket. This function will have three parameters: the
first is a pointer to the weapon we want to attach, the second is the character's mesh.
And the third is the name of the socket.
We must use WeaponArmorySocketName when spawning. Let's start with the body of the function.
The first parameter is a pointer to ASTUBaseWeapon.
We name the argument Weapon. The second parameter can be a pointer to USkeletalMeshComponent, or you can use a pointer
to a more basic component, to USceneComponent, because the AttachToComponent function
takes a pointer to this type as the first argument. And the last parameter is the name of the socket.
FName by constant reference. We name the parameter SocketName.
Let's add the function declaration to the .h file. We copy the signature.
We insert into the private section.
Let's move the attachment code from SpawnWeapons into our new function.
And change all the variables to function parameters, that is, replace CurrentWeapon with Weapon,
Character-> GetMesh () with SceneComponent and set SocketName as the last parameter.
You can add nullptr check for Weapon and SceneComponent.
Let's create an additional function that will deal with equipping the weapon, that is,
setting the CurrentWeapon and attaching the weapon to the character's hand. We call this
function EquipWeapon. It will have one integer parameter. Let's call it WeaponIndex.
This parameter will be the index for the Weapons array, the element of which
we want to set as the current weapon. We create the body of the function.
We can immediately add this call to BeginPlay after we have spawned all weapons and pass
the CurrentWeaponIndex parameter there . Also, for clarity, we can set it to zero on BeginPlay.
Let's program the EquipWeapon function. We also need a pointer to character.
We copy it.
Checking for nullptr.
Now is the time to install CurrentWeapon.
We assign to the given pointer an array element that corresponds to the WeaponIndex.
It is also possible here that the user did not add any weapon elements
in the blueprint, and therefore a crash will occur here. We will also handle this situation in a few lectures.
The CurrentWeapon now points to the actor that we want to use as the main weapon.
And we can attach it to the character's hand, that is, to the EquipSocket.
We will call this EquipWeapon function every time we want to install a new weapon,
so the CurrentWeapon pointer will be null only when it is called in BeginPlay. In other situations,
CurrentWeapon points to the current weapon. Therefore, the next time we call the EquipWeapon function with a different index,
before changing the CurrentWeapon pointer, we must return the weapon behind the character's back,
that is, call the AttachWeaponToSocket function with the WeaponArmorySocketName socket name.
Let's add one more function that will be called when processing NextWeapon action.
Let's also call it NextWeapon. Create a body at the very end of the file.
The logic of this function will be the simplest. We are incrementing the CurrentWeaponIndex variable by one.
And also, so that the variable does not go beyond the Weapons array, we will take the expression (CurrentWeaponIndex + 1)
modulo the length of the array. That is, the counter value will be equal to the number of array elements, then it
will turn into 0. The number of array elements is calculated using the Num function.
And we just need to call the EquipWeapon function with the changed CurrentWeaponIndex.
Go to the character class. Let's add bind to the action.
Copy any of the existing ones and replace the name with NextWeapon, which we created in the editor.
And we will call the NextWeapon function of the weapon component.
One point that I missed when copying - the name of the socket that is responsible for the equipment
should be ArmorySocket. Go to the character's blueprint and add the rifle
and launcher to the WeaponClasses array in the
weapon component . Compile. We start the game.
Press tab. The weapon switches. When you scroll the mouse wheel, the weapon changes too quickly. We'll tweak
this in future chapters with gear animations. Now in the game we can switch
between the two types of weapons. Let's modify the weapon component a bit. We will destroy the weapon actors
when calling the EndPlay function of the component. The EndPlay function is called on each component when
the EndPlay function of the parent actor is called. In our logic, we destroy the character a few
seconds after death. At the same time, the EndPlay function will be called for all character components.
The first thing we will do when calling this function is to set the CurrentWeapon pointer to nullptr.
He should not point to any actor. Next, we do a range loop over the array of our Weapons actors.
Detach the actors from the mesh. To do this, we will use a function that
is essentially the opposite of the AttachToComponent function. It's called DetachFromActor.
As a parameter, the structure is also inverse to the EAttachmentRule structure.
It is of type FDetachmentTransformRules and we can pass in a static variable
called KeepWorldTransform. It is important not to get confused here: this is not an enum element, but a static structure.
After that, we can remove the weapon actor by calling the Destroy function.
Next, we clear the Weapons array. We call the Empty function. And don't forget about calling the parent function through Super.
After detach, you can do other logic. You can, for example, turn on the physics simulation on the weapon actors,
just leave them on the stage or delete them on a timer after ten seconds.
One more point. When we change weapons, if we also have the current weapon, then we must call the StopFire function,
otherwise, for example, our rifle, which fires on a timer, will not stop firing.
We must do the same when our character dies - call the StopFire function of the weapon component.
Because our character can die when the fire button is held down.
We start the game. Let's run into the sphere. We are lost. We are waiting for a few seconds.
The entire arsenal withdrew with the character.